content/install-portworx/cloud/aws/aws-eks/eksctl/eksctl-operator.md, before:

---
title: Install Portworx on AWS EKS using eksctl and the Operator
linkTitle: Install using the Operator
keywords: Install, on cloud, EKS, Elastic Kubernetes Service, AWS, Amazon Web Services, Kubernetes, k8s, eksctl
description: Install Portworx on an AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) cluster using eksctl.
weight: 200
noicon: true
aliases:
    - /portworx-install-with-kubernetes/cloud/aws/aws-eks/eksctl/eksctl-operator/
---

This article provides instructions for installing Portworx on Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) using the Weaveworks `eksctl` command-line utility.

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** You can follow these procedures to deploy Portworx on AWS Outposts.
{{</info>}}

## Prerequisites

Before you can install Portworx on EKS using `pxctl`, you must meet the following prerequisites:

* You must have `eksctl` [downloaded](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/releases) and installed on your local computer

## Install

### Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions

{{< content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-cloud-aws-1-prepare.md" >}}

#### Create a ClusterConfig

The `ClusterConfig` dictates what resources `eksctl` requests from EKS for the purposes of running Portworx. Portworx requires a number of default resources and configurations in order to function, but other areas of your configuration will vary based on your needs.

1. Create a `ClusterConfig` configuration YAML file, specifying your own configuration options for the following:

    * **metadata:**
        * **name:** withe cluster name you desire
        * **region:** with the region you want your eks service to operate from
        * **version:** with a [supported](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/kubernetes-versions.html) EKS version
    * **managedNodeGroups:**
        * **storage-nodes.instance:** with the instance type appropriate for your workloads
        * **storage-nodes.minSize:** and **storage-nodes.maxSize:** with the number of worker nodes. Both values must be the same, and a minimum of 3.
        * **storage-nodes.ssh.publicKeyPath:** if no path is specified, the default will be `id_rsa`
        * **storage-nodes.iam.attachPolicyARNs:** with the ARN of the IAM policy you created for Portworx in the **Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions** step
        * **storageless-nodes.instanceType:** with the instance type approprirate for your storageless node workloads
        * **storageless-nodes.minSize:** with the minimum number of storageless nodes that can be active on your cluster at any given time
        * **storageless-nodes.maxSize:** with the maximum number of storageless allowed on your cluster
        * **storageless-nodes.desiredCapacity:** with the ideal number of storageless nodes preferred on your cluster
        * **storageless-nodes.iam.attachPolicyARNs:** with the ARN of the IAM policy you created for Portworx in the **Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions** step
    * **availabilityZones:** with the availability zones applicable to your region

        ```text
        apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
        kind: ClusterConfig
        metadata:
          name: px-eksctl
          region: us-east-1
          version: "1.14"
        managedNodeGroups:
          - name: storage-nodes
            instanceType: m4.xlarge
            minSize: 3
            maxSize: 3
            volumeSize: 20
            #ami: auto
            amiFamily: AmazonLinux2
            labels: {role: worker, "portworx.io/node-type": "storage"}
            tags:
              nodegroup-role: worker
            ssh:  
              allow: true
              publicKeyPath: ~/.ssh/aws-vm.pub
            iam:
              attachPolicyARNs:
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/ElasticLoadBalancingFullAccess
                - <arn-of-your-portworx-aws-iam-policy>
              withAddonPolicies:
                imageBuilder: true
                autoScaler: true
                ebs: true
                fsx: true
                efs: true
                albIngress: true
                cloudWatch: true
          - name: storageless-nodes
            instanceType: m4.xlarge
            minSize: 3
            maxSize: 6
            desiredCapacity: 4
            volumeSize: 20
            amiFamily: AmazonLinux2
            labels: {role: worker}
            tags:
              nodegroup-role: worker-storageless
            ssh:
              allow: true
              publicKeyPath: ~/.ssh/aws-vm.pub
            iam:
              attachPolicyARNs:
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/ElasticLoadBalancingFullAccess
                - <arn-of-your-portworx-aws-iam-policy>
              withAddonPolicies:
                imageBuilder: true
                autoScaler: true
                ebs: true
                fsx: true
                efs: true
                albIngress: true
                cloudWatch: true
        availabilityZones: [ 'us-east-1a', 'us-east-1b', 'us-east-1c' ]
        ```

2. Enter the following `eksctl create cluster` command, specifying the name of the `clusterConfig` file you created in the step above:

    ```text
    eksctl create cluster -f <my-clusterConfig>.yml
    ```

{{< content "shared/operator-install.md" >}}

### Generate the spec

To install Portworx with Kubernetes, you must first generate Kubernetes manifests that you will deploy in your cluster:

1. Navigate to <a href="https://central.portworx.com" target="tab">PX-Central</a> and log in or create an account
3. Select **Install and Run** to open the Spec Generator

    ![Screenshot showing install and run](/img/pxcentral-install.png)

4. Select **New Spec**

    ![Screenshot showing new spec button](/img/pxcentral-spec.png)

5. Generate a spec with the following selections:

    * On the **Storage** tab, specify **AWS** and configure your storage devices based on your needs
    * On the **Customize** tab, select the **Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (EKS)** option
    * Under the **Environment Variables** dropdown on the **Customize** tab, create an environment variable named `ENABLE_ASG_STORAGE_PARTITIONING` with a value of **true**

{{< content "shared/operator-apply-the-spec.md" >}}

{{< content "shared/operator-monitor.md" >}}

{{< content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-post-install.md" >}}

## Further reading

* Refer to the [eksctl github](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/tree/master/examples) for more examples of config files which can be used as input to eksctl
* For more information on what `eksctl` is, as well as how it works, refer to the [eksctl documentation](https://eksctl.io/)

Commit message:

PD-1336-update px-central-screenshots (#1510)

content/install-portworx/cloud/aws/aws-eks/eksctl/eksctl-operator.md, after:

---
title: Install Portworx on AWS EKS using eksctl and the Operator
linkTitle: Install using the Operator
keywords: Install, on cloud, EKS, Elastic Kubernetes Service, AWS, Amazon Web Services, Kubernetes, k8s, eksctl
description: Install Portworx on an AWS EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) cluster using eksctl.
weight: 200
noicon: true
aliases:
    - /portworx-install-with-kubernetes/cloud/aws/aws-eks/eksctl/eksctl-operator/
---

This article provides instructions for installing Portworx on Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) using the Weaveworks `eksctl` command-line utility.

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** You can follow these procedures to deploy Portworx on AWS Outposts.
{{</info>}}

## Prerequisites

Before you can install Portworx on EKS using `pxctl`, you must meet the following prerequisites:

* You must have `eksctl` [downloaded](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/releases) and installed on your local computer

## Install

### Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions

{{< content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-cloud-aws-1-prepare.md" >}}

#### Create a ClusterConfig

The `ClusterConfig` dictates what resources `eksctl` requests from EKS for the purposes of running Portworx. Portworx requires a number of default resources and configurations in order to function, but other areas of your configuration will vary based on your needs.

1. Create a `ClusterConfig` configuration YAML file, specifying your own configuration options for the following:

    * **metadata:**
        * **name:** withe cluster name you desire
        * **region:** with the region you want your eks service to operate from
        * **version:** with a [supported](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/kubernetes-versions.html) EKS version
    * **managedNodeGroups:**
        * **storage-nodes.instance:** with the instance type appropriate for your workloads
        * **storage-nodes.minSize:** and **storage-nodes.maxSize:** with the number of worker nodes. Both values must be the same, and a minimum of 3.
        * **storage-nodes.ssh.publicKeyPath:** if no path is specified, the default will be `id_rsa`
        * **storage-nodes.iam.attachPolicyARNs:** with the ARN of the IAM policy you created for Portworx in the **Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions** step
        * **storageless-nodes.instanceType:** with the instance type approprirate for your storageless node workloads
        * **storageless-nodes.minSize:** with the minimum number of storageless nodes that can be active on your cluster at any given time
        * **storageless-nodes.maxSize:** with the maximum number of storageless allowed on your cluster
        * **storageless-nodes.desiredCapacity:** with the ideal number of storageless nodes preferred on your cluster
        * **storageless-nodes.iam.attachPolicyARNs:** with the ARN of the IAM policy you created for Portworx in the **Grant Portworx the needed AWS permissions** step
    * **availabilityZones:** with the availability zones applicable to your region

        ```text
        apiVersion: eksctl.io/v1alpha5
        kind: ClusterConfig
        metadata:
          name: px-eksctl
          region: us-east-1
          version: "1.14"
        managedNodeGroups:
          - name: storage-nodes
            instanceType: m4.xlarge
            minSize: 3
            maxSize: 3
            volumeSize: 20
            #ami: auto
            amiFamily: AmazonLinux2
            labels: {role: worker, "portworx.io/node-type": "storage"}
            tags:
              nodegroup-role: worker
            ssh:  
              allow: true
              publicKeyPath: ~/.ssh/aws-vm.pub
            iam:
              attachPolicyARNs:
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/ElasticLoadBalancingFullAccess
                - <arn-of-your-portworx-aws-iam-policy>
              withAddonPolicies:
                imageBuilder: true
                autoScaler: true
                ebs: true
                fsx: true
                efs: true
                albIngress: true
                cloudWatch: true
          - name: storageless-nodes
            instanceType: m4.xlarge
            minSize: 3
            maxSize: 6
            desiredCapacity: 4
            volumeSize: 20
            amiFamily: AmazonLinux2
            labels: {role: worker}
            tags:
              nodegroup-role: worker-storageless
            ssh:
              allow: true
              publicKeyPath: ~/.ssh/aws-vm.pub
            iam:
              attachPolicyARNs:
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKSWorkerNodePolicy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryReadOnly
                - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/ElasticLoadBalancingFullAccess
                - <arn-of-your-portworx-aws-iam-policy>
              withAddonPolicies:
                imageBuilder: true
                autoScaler: true
                ebs: true
                fsx: true
                efs: true
                albIngress: true
                cloudWatch: true
        availabilityZones: [ 'us-east-1a', 'us-east-1b', 'us-east-1c' ]
        ```

2. Enter the following `eksctl create cluster` command, specifying the name of the `clusterConfig` file you created in the step above:

    ```text
    eksctl create cluster -f <my-clusterConfig>.yml
    ```

{{< content "shared/operator-install.md" >}}

### Generate the spec

To install Portworx with Kubernetes, you must first generate Kubernetes manifests that you will deploy in your cluster:

1. Navigate to <a href="https://central.portworx.com" target="tab">PX-Central</a> and log in or create an account

2. Click **Continue** with Portworx Enterprise option:

    ![Px-central Product Catalog](/img/pxcentral-install.png)

3. Choose an appropriate license for your requirement and click **Continue**:

    ![Screenshot showing Portworx license selector](/img/pxcentral-license.png)

4. Generate a spec with the following selections:

    * On the **Storage** tab, specify **AWS** and configure your storage devices based on your needs
    * On the **Customize** tab, select the **Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (EKS)** option
    * Under the **Environment Variables** dropdown on the **Customize** tab, create an environment variable named `ENABLE_ASG_STORAGE_PARTITIONING` with a value of **true**

{{< content "shared/operator-apply-the-spec.md" >}}

{{< content "shared/operator-monitor.md" >}}

{{< content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-post-install.md" >}}

## Further reading

* Refer to the [eksctl github](https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/tree/master/examples) for more examples of config files which can be used as input to eksctl
* For more information on what `eksctl` is, as well as how it works, refer to the [eksctl documentation](https://eksctl.io/)
