content/key-management/kubernetes-secrets/pvc-encryption-using-CSI/_index.md, before:

---
title: Encrypting PVCs using CSI and Kubernetes Secrets
weight: 1
keywords: Portworx, Kubernetes, Kubernetes Secrets, containers, storage, encryption, CSI
description: Instructions on using Kubernetes Secrets with Portworx for encrypting PVCs on CSI using StorageClass
noicon: true
series: kubernetes-secret-uses
series2: k8s-pvc-enc
hidden: false
---

This article discusses the PVC encryption methods used with the Kubernetes Container Storage Interface. For detaile about using Portworx with CSI, refer to the [Portworx with CSI](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/) page.

## Prerequisites

In order to perform the steps in this document, you must have [Portworx with CSI](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/) version 1 enabled.

## Encrypt your volumes

You can encrypt your volumes in one of two ways:

* Per storage class
* Per PVC

### Encrypt your volumes per storage class

You can encrypt your volumes by specifying the encryption key in a Kubernetes secret. This secret can be same as the one created to host the authentication token. Using this method, you can handle both authentication and encryption together, and multiple PVCs referring to this storage class will use the same secret for encryption.

#### Step 1: Create a kubernetes secret that contains the passphrase used for encrypting the Portworx volume

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command, specifying your own passphrase in `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption` which will encrypt the PVC:

```text
kubectl create secret generic volume-secrets -n portworx --from-literal=mysql-pvc-secret-key=mysecret-passcode-for-encryption
```

#### Step 2: Create a CSI kubernetes secret that will point to the encryption k8s secret

The CSI implementation reads the Kubernetes secret px-secret and passes its contents to Portworx. The px-secret must contain the SECRET_NAME, SECRET_CONTEXT and SECRET_KEY. That is how Portworx knows which Kubernetes secret to fetch the encryption passphrase from.

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command:

```text
kubectl create secret generic px-secret --from-literal=SECRET_NAME=volume-secrets --from-literal=SECRET_KEY=mysql-pvc-secret-key --from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=portworx
```

#### Step 3: Create a CSI storage class for encrypted PVC.

Create the storage class which refers to the CSI secret you created in step 2 above. Specify the following:

  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name` and the name of your CSI secret
  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace` and the namespace in which your CSI secret is located
  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name` and the name of your CSI secret
  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace` and the namespace in which your CSI secret is located

```text
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: portworx-sc
provisioner: pxd.portworx.com
parameters:
  repl: "1"
  secure: "true"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: px-secret
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: portworx
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: px-secret
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: portworx
```


### Encrypt your volumes per PVC

You can encrypt volumes by allowing your users to specify encryption keys in their PVCs. Using this method, each PVC will use its own key for encryption. Follow the steps below to create two PVCs which use different passphrases for encryption:

#### Step 1: Create two kubernetes secrets which will be used for two different PVCs

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command for your first PVC, specifying your own passphrase in `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption` which will encrypt the PVC:

```text
kubectl create secret generic volume-secrets-1 -n portworx --from-literal=mysql-pvc-secret-key-1=mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-1
```

Enter the same command for your second PVC, and optionally, specify a different secret name and a different namespace. This example places both PVCs in a single namespace:

```text
kubectl create secret generic volume-secrets-2 -n portworx --from-literal=mysql-pvc-secret-key-2=mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-2
```

#### Step 2: Create two CSI kubernetes secrets that will point to their own encryption Kubernetes secrets

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command for your first PVC, specifying the following options:

  * This secret's name, `mysql-pvc-1` in this example
  * The `-n` option and the same namespace as the kubernetes secret it will point to, `portworx` in this example
  * The `--from-literal=SECRET_NAME=` option and the name of the kubernetes secret this will point to
  * The `--from-literal=SECRET_KEY=` option and the the key inside the second secret that houses the encryption key
  * The `--from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=` option and the secret's namespace


```text
kubectl create secret generic mysql-pvc-1 -n portworx --from-literal=SECRET_NAME=volume-secrets-1 --from-literal=SECRET_KEY=mysql-pvc-secret-key-1 --from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=portworx
```

Enter the same command for your second PVC, but specify a different secret name and optionally, a different namespace:

```text
kubectl create secret generic mysql-pvc-2 -n portworx --from-literal=SECRET_NAME=volume-secrets-2 --from-literal=SECRET_KEY=mysql-pvc-secret-key-2 --from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=portworx
```

#### Step 3: Create a CSI storage class for encrypted PVCs

Create a StorageClass CRD, specifying the `${pvc.name}` and `${pvc.namespace}` template variables:

```text
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: portworx-sc
provisioner: pxd.portworx.com
parameters:
  repl: "1"
  secure: "true"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: ${pvc.name}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: ${pvc.name}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
```

#### Step 4: Create encrypted PVCs

Create 2 encrypted PVCs, one for each of the secrets you created in the preceding steps:

1. Create the `mysql-pvc-1` PVC that uses the passcode you created in **Step 1: Create two kubernetes secrets which will be used for two different PVCs**. In the example, that passcode is `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-1`:

      ```text
      kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: mysql-pvc-1
        namespace: portworx
      spec:
        storageClassName: portworx-sc
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 2Gi
      ```

2. Create the `mysql-pvc-2` PVC that uses the passcode you created in **Step 1: Create two kubernetes secrets which will be used for two different PVCs**. In the example, that passcode is `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-2`:

      ```text
      kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: mysql-pvc-2
        namespace: portworx
      spec:
        storageClassName: portworx-sc
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 2Gi
      ```

The templatized parameters in the CSI storage class point to the name and namespace of the PVC itself. This ensures that each PVC requires a separate Kubernetes secret of the same name in the same namespace. In this way, each PVC gets encrypted with its own passphrase.

Commit message:

Adds CSI documentation for PX 2.8 (#1152)
* Adds CSI documentation for PX 2.8

Signed-off-by: Grant Griffiths <ggriffiths@purestorage.com>

* fixes during meeting

Signed-off-by: Grant Griffiths <ggriffiths@purestorage.com>

* Update content/portworx-csi-driver/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-csi-driver/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/dataprotection/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/enable/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/volumelifecycle/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/dataprotection/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/volumelifecycle/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/volumelifecycle/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/volumelifecycle/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/volumelifecycle/_index.md

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: nathan-px <53194370+nathan-px@users.noreply.github.com>

content/key-management/kubernetes-secrets/pvc-encryption-using-CSI/_index.md, after:

---
title: Encrypting PVCs using CSI and Kubernetes Secrets
linkTitle: PVC Encryption with CSI and Kubernetes
weight: 1
keywords: Portworx, Kubernetes, Kubernetes Secrets, containers, storage, encryption, CSI
description: Instructions on using Kubernetes Secrets with Portworx for encrypting PVCs on CSI using StorageClass
noicon: true
series: kubernetes-secret-uses
series2: k8s-pvc-enc
hidden: false
---

This article discusses the PVC encryption methods used with the Kubernetes Container Storage Interface. For detaile about using Portworx with CSI, refer to the [Portworx with CSI](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/) page.

## Prerequisites

In order to perform the steps in this document, you must have [Portworx with CSI](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/storage-operations/csi/) version 1 enabled.

## Encrypt your volumes

You can encrypt your volumes in one of two ways:

* Per storage class
* Per PVC

### Encrypt your volumes per storage class

You can encrypt your volumes by specifying the encryption key in a Kubernetes secret. This secret can be same as the one created to host the authentication token. Using this method, you can handle both authentication and encryption together, and multiple PVCs referring to this storage class will use the same secret for encryption.

#### Step 1: Create a kubernetes secret that contains the passphrase used for encrypting the Portworx volume

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command, specifying your own passphrase in `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption` which will encrypt the PVC:

```text
kubectl create secret generic volume-secrets -n portworx --from-literal=mysql-pvc-secret-key=mysecret-passcode-for-encryption
```

#### Step 2: Create a CSI kubernetes secret that will point to the encryption k8s secret

The CSI implementation reads the Kubernetes secret px-secret and passes its contents to Portworx. The px-secret must contain the SECRET_NAME, SECRET_CONTEXT and SECRET_KEY. That is how Portworx knows which Kubernetes secret to fetch the encryption passphrase from.

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command:

```text
kubectl create secret generic px-secret -n portworx --from-literal=SECRET_NAME=volume-secrets --from-literal=SECRET_KEY=mysql-pvc-secret-key --from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=portworx
```

#### Step 3: Create a CSI storage class for encrypted PVC.

Create the storage class which refers to the CSI secret you created in step 2 above. Specify the following:

  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name` and the name of your CSI secret
  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace` and the namespace in which your CSI secret is located
  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name` and the name of your CSI secret
  * `csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace` and the namespace in which your CSI secret is located

```text
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: portworx-sc
provisioner: pxd.portworx.com
parameters:
  repl: "1"
  secure: "true"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: px-secret
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: portworx
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: px-secret
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: portworx
```


### Encrypt your volumes per PVC

You can encrypt volumes by allowing your users to specify encryption keys in their PVCs. Using this method, each PVC will use its own key for encryption. Follow the steps below to create two PVCs which use different passphrases for encryption:

#### Step 1: Create two kubernetes secrets which will be used for two different PVCs

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command for your first PVC, specifying your own passphrase in `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption` which will encrypt the PVC:

```text
kubectl create secret generic volume-secrets-1 -n portworx --from-literal=mysql-pvc-secret-key-1=mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-1
```

Enter the same command for your second PVC, and optionally, specify a different secret name and a different namespace. This example places both PVCs in a single namespace:

```text
kubectl create secret generic volume-secrets-2 -n portworx --from-literal=mysql-pvc-secret-key-2=mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-2
```

#### Step 2: Create two CSI kubernetes secrets that will point to their own encryption Kubernetes secrets

Enter the following `kubectl create secret generic` command for your first PVC, specifying the following options:

  * This secret's name, `mysql-pvc-1` in this example
  * The `-n` option and the same namespace as the kubernetes secret it will point to, `portworx` in this example
  * The `--from-literal=SECRET_NAME=` option and the name of the kubernetes secret this will point to
  * The `--from-literal=SECRET_KEY=` option and the the key inside the second secret that houses the encryption key
  * The `--from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=` option and the secret's namespace


```text
kubectl create secret generic mysql-pvc-1 -n portworx --from-literal=SECRET_NAME=volume-secrets-1 --from-literal=SECRET_KEY=mysql-pvc-secret-key-1 --from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=portworx
```

Enter the same command for your second PVC, but specify a different secret name and optionally, a different namespace:

```text
kubectl create secret generic mysql-pvc-2 -n portworx --from-literal=SECRET_NAME=volume-secrets-2 --from-literal=SECRET_KEY=mysql-pvc-secret-key-2 --from-literal=SECRET_CONTEXT=portworx
```

#### Step 3: Create a CSI storage class for encrypted PVCs

Create a StorageClass CRD, specifying the `${pvc.name}` and `${pvc.namespace}` template variables:

```text
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: portworx-sc
provisioner: pxd.portworx.com
parameters:
  repl: "1"
  secure: "true"
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: ${pvc.name}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-name: ${pvc.name}
  csi.storage.k8s.io/node-publish-secret-namespace: ${pvc.namespace}
```

#### Step 4: Create encrypted PVCs

Create 2 encrypted PVCs, one for each of the secrets you created in the preceding steps:

1. Create the `mysql-pvc-1` PVC that uses the passcode you created in **Step 1: Create two kubernetes secrets which will be used for two different PVCs**. In the example, that passcode is `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-1`:

      ```text
      kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: mysql-pvc-1
        namespace: portworx
      spec:
        storageClassName: portworx-sc
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 2Gi
      ```

2. Create the `mysql-pvc-2` PVC that uses the passcode you created in **Step 1: Create two kubernetes secrets which will be used for two different PVCs**. In the example, that passcode is `mysecret-passcode-for-encryption-2`:

      ```text
      kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: mysql-pvc-2
        namespace: portworx
      spec:
        storageClassName: portworx-sc
        accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 2Gi
      ```

The templatized parameters in the CSI storage class point to the name and namespace of the PVC itself. This ensures that each PVC requires a separate Kubernetes secret of the same name in the same namespace. In this way, each PVC gets encrypted with its own passphrase.
