content/support/_index.md, before:

---
title: Portworx Support
weight: 9
series: top
icon: /img/banner__prerequisites.png
description: Information about how to get support for Portworx products
keywords: portworx, containers, storage, volumes, CLI, support
hidesections: true
disableprevnext: true
linkTitle: Support
---

Thank you for being a valued Portworx, Inc. customer. At Portworx, Inc. we are committed to your success and to offering you the best possible customer experience.

At Portworx, Inc., customer responsiveness is our highest priority. We offer a number of ways for you to connect directly with our Engineers, Architects and Support Team.

## Discussion forum

<https://forums.portworx.com> is a great community resource where you can share your experience on running and managing Kubernetes and other orchestrators with Portworx, learn about common challenges other users are facing and help other community members with your experience

Portworx, Inc. monitors the forum closely and it is a great way to get to know about new releases and product updates.

Portworx, Inc. also uses this forum to get direct customer feedback on how we can make our product work better to meet your needs.

## Portworx Support Portal (PSP)

We have a Portworx Support Portal (PSP) that is maintained through Atlassian/Jira.
Using the PSP offers a way to open support cases to report product defects or product feature requests.

For customers that do not enable Slack access through their corporate firewall, please use PSP
as the primary support mechanism.

To obtain access to the PSP, please send the name of your company/site and the
email addresses of your team to "support@portworx.com".   You will be notified by email on how to activate.

## Slack

We are always available on Slack. Join us! [![Slack](/img/slack.png)](https://portworx.slack.com)

We also offer private slack channels, per company/site. Slack channels offer the most immediate way to interact with the our team. All interaction on the private Slack channels are strictly between Portworx, Inc.'s representatives and the customer company/site.

To obtain a private Slack channel, please send the name of your company/site and the email addresses of your team to "support@portworx.com". You will be notified by email on how to activate.

## Support Email Alias

We also offer email support through  our support mailing list - support@portworx.com.

## Other support pages

Below are some sections that will have useful troubleshooting information.

{{<homelist series="support">}}

Commit message:

PD-996 Add phone contact information to support page (#1253)

content/support/_index.md, after:

---
title: Portworx Support
weight: 9
series: top
icon: /img/banner__prerequisites.png
description: Information about how to get support for Portworx products
keywords: portworx, containers, storage, volumes, CLI, support
hidesections: true
disableprevnext: true
linkTitle: Support
---

Thank you for being a valued Pure Storage customer. We are committed to your success and to offering you the best possible customer experience. \

Customer responsiveness is our highest priority, and we offer a number of ways for you to connect directly with our Engineers, Architects and Support Team.

## High severity issues

For production outages and high severity issues, contact support by phone:

* **US**: +1 (866) 244-7121 or +1 (650) 729-4088
* **International**: [International list of numbers](https://support.purestorage.com/Pure1/Support)

## All other issues

For all other issues, use the [Pure Storage support portal](https://pure1.purestorage.com/support) to open support cases.

## Discussion forum

Use the [Portworx forum](https://forums.portworx.com) to connect with the community and share your experience on running and managing Kubernetes and other orchestrators with Portworx, learn about common challenges other users are facing, and help other community members with your experience.

The Portworx team monitors the forum closely, and it is a great way to learn about new releases and product updates. The team also uses this forum to get direct customer feedback on how we can make our product work better to meet your needs.

## Other support pages

Below are some sections that will have useful troubleshooting information.

{{<homelist series="support">}}
