content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/disaster-recovery/px-metro/1-install-px.md, before:

---
title: 1. Prepare your Portworx Cluster
weight: 1
keywords: Asynchronous DR, disaster recovery, kubernetes, k8s, cloud, backup, restore, snapshot, migration
description: Find out how to install a single stretch Portworx cluster across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
---

The goal of this document is to setup a single Portworx cluster that spans across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

## Prerequisites

* **Kubernetes Clusters**: At least two Kubernetes clusters which are part of the same metropolitan area network with a
  maximum network latency of 10ms between them.
* **Version**: A single Portworx cluster of v2.1 or later installed on across Kubernetes clusters and Stork v2.2.4 or
  later on both clusters.
* **Network Connectivity**: Ports 9001 to 9020 open between the two Kubernetes clusters.
* **External Kvdb**: A kvdb like etcd or consul setup outside of the Kubernetes clusters.
* **License**: A DR enabled {{< pxEnterprise >}} license on both the source and destination clusters to use this feature.
* **Witness node requirements**: 4 cores minimum, 8 cores recommended, 4GB minimum, 8GB recommended

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**: Additional steps are required when installing on a Tanzu cluster. Check below for details 
{{</info>}}

## Installing Portworx

In this mode of operation, a single Portworx cluster will stretch across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

### New Installation

To install Portworx on each of the Kubernetes clusters, you will need to generate a separate Portworx Kubernetes
manifest file for each of them using the Portworx spec generator in [PX-Central](https://central.portworx.com).

While generating the spec file for each Kubernetes cluster, make sure you provide the same values for the following
arguments:

#### Operator Install
* **Cluster ID** (StorageCluster: metadata.name)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (StorageCluster: spec.kvdb.endpoints)

#### DaemonSet Install
* **Cluster ID** (Portworx install argument: `-c`)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (Portworx install argument: `-k`)

Specifying the same **ClusterID** and **Kvdb Endpoints** in each Kubernetes manifest file ensures that a single Portworx
cluster will stretch across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

### Existing Installation

If you already have an existing Kubernetes cluster, you can add another Kubernetes cluster and let its nodes join the
same Portworx cluster.

To achieve this, make sure you provide the following arguments same as your existing cluster:

#### Operator Install
* **Cluster ID** (StorageCluster: metadata.name)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (StorageCluster: spec.kvdb.endpoints)

#### DaemonSet Install
* **Cluster ID** (Portworx install argument: `-c`)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (Portworx install argument: `-k`)

Specifying the same **ClusterID** and **Kvdb Endpoints** as your existing cluster ensures that a single Portworx cluster
will stretch across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

If your Kubernetes clusters have exactly the same configuration, you can use the URL specified by
the `install-source` annotation on the existing Portworx installation to fetch the spec for your new cluster:

#### Operator Install
Use the `portworx.io/install-source` annotation:
```text
apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1
kind: StorageCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    portworx.io/install-source: "https://install.portworx.com/{{% currentVersion %}}?mc=false&kbver=1.11.9&k=etcd%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2F100.26.199.167%3A2379&s=%22type%3Dgp2%2Csize%3D150%22&c=px-cluster-2f6d696f-a728-46ec-bfbc-dcece1765579&stork=true&lh=true&st=k8s"
```

#### DaemonSet Install
Use the `portworx.com/install-source` annotation:
```text
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: DaemonSet
metadata:
  annotations:
    portworx.com/install-source: "https://install.portworx.com/{{% currentVersion %}}?mc=false&kbver=1.11.9&k=etcd%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2F100.26.199.167%3A2379&s=%22type%3Dgp2%2Csize%3D150%22&c=px-cluster-2f6d696f-a728-46ec-bfbc-dcece1765579&stork=true&lh=true&st=k8s"
```

Otherwise you can always generate a new spec using the Portworx spec generator
in [PX-Central](https://central.portworx.com).

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**: If your existing Kubernetes cluster uses internal kvdb, then you cannot stretch your Portworx clusters across
multiple Kubernetes cluster. This mode of deployments requires an external kvdb running outside your Kubernetes cluster
{{</info>}}

### Specifying cluster domains

A cluster domain identifies a subset of nodes from the stretch Portworx cluster that are a part of the same failure
domain. In this case, your Kubernetes clusters are separated across a metropolitan area network and we wish to achieve
DR across them. So each Kubernetes cluster and its nodes are one cluster domain. This cluster domain information needs
to be explicitly specified to Portworx through the `-cluster_domain` install argument.

Once you have generated the Kubernetes manifest file, add the `cluster_domain` argument. You can also edit a running Portworx install and add this new field.

#### Operator Install
Use the `portworx.io/misc-args` annotation to add a `-cluster_domain` argument:
```text
apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1
kind: StorageCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    portworx.io/misc-args: "-cluster_domain us-east-1a"
```

#### DaemonSet Install
Add the `-cluster_domain` argument in the `args` section of the DaemonSet:
```text
      containers:
        - name: portworx
          image: portworx/oci-monitor:2.1
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          args:
            ["-k", "etcd:http://100.26.199.167:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.168:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.169:2379", "-c", "px-dr-cluster", "-cluster_domain", "us-east-1a", "-a", "-secret_type", "k8s",
             "-x", "kubernetes"]

```
<br/><br/>
The value for `cluster_domain` needs to be different for each Kubernetes cluster.

* You can name your cluster domains with arbitrary names like **datacenter1** and **datacenter2** identifying in which
  Datacenter your Kubernetes clusters are running.
* You can name them based on your cloud provider's zone names such as **us-east-1a**, **us-east-1b**.

#### Installing on a Tanzu cluster

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**: This section is intended for users who are using Tanzu, skip this section if you're not using Tanzu.
{{</info>}}

The existing Sync DR implementation assumes the availability of cloud drives for each of the two clusters. In Tanzu cloud drive is a PVC, which is a cluster-scoped resource and in order to help clusters distinguish between their drives,
they should be labeled accordingly.

* Label your worker nodes **on both** clusters with the `px-dr` label. Set your cluster domain as a
  value.

    ```
    kubectl label nodes <list_of_nodes or --all> px-dr=<cluster_domain_name>
    ```

* Add the `--node_pool_label` parameter to the spec with a key `px-dr`

    ```text
          containers:
            - name: portworx
              image: portworx/oci-monitor:2.8
              args:
                ["-k", "etcd:http://100.26.199.167:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.168:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.169:2379", "-c", "px-dr-cluster", "-cluster_domain", "us-east-1a", "-a", "-secret_type", "k8s",
                 "-x", "kubernetes", --node_pool_label=px-dr]
    ```

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** 

* Other arguments are for illustration purposes only, Use args from your existing specs. Only add `--node_pool_label=px-dr`.
* Only deploy Portworx in this mode when your Kubernetes clusters are separated by a metropolitan area network with a maximum latency of 10ms. Pure Storage does not recommended you run in this mode if your Kubernetes clusters are distributed across regions, such as AWS regions `us-east` and `us-west`. 
{{</info>}}

A cluster domain and, in turn, the set of nodes which are a part of that domain are associated with either of the
following states:

* **Active State**: Nodes from an active cluster domain participate in the cluster activities. Applications **can** be
  scheduled on the nodes which are a part of an active cluster domain.
* **Inactive State**: Nodes from an inactive cluster domain do not participate in the cluster activities.
  Applications **cannot** be scheduled on such nodes.

Once the Kubernetes manifest is applied on both the clusters, Portworx will form the stretch cluster. You can run the
following commands to ensure Portworx is successfully installed in a stretch fashion.

**Kubernetes Cluster 1 running in `us-east-1a`**

```text
kubectl get nodes -o wide
```

```output
ip-172-20-33-100.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   18.205.7.13      Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-20-36-212.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   18.213.118.236   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-20-48-24.ec2.internal    Ready     master    3h        v1.11.9   18.215.34.139    Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-20-59-248.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   34.200.228.223   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
```

**Kubernetes Cluster 2 running in `us-east-1b`**

```text
kubectl get nodes -o wide
```

```output
ip-172-40-34-140.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   34.204.2.95     Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-40-35-23.ec2.internal    Ready     master    3h        v1.11.9   34.238.44.60    Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-40-40-230.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   52.90.187.179   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-40-50-47.ec2.internal    Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   3.84.27.79      Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
```

A single Portworx cluster running across both the Kubernetes clusters

```text
kubectl exec portworx-d6rk7 -n kube-system -- /opt/pwx/bin/pxctl status
```

```output
Status: PX is operational
License: Trial (expires in 31 days)
Node ID: 04de0858-4081-47c3-a2ab-f0835b788738
        IP: 172.40.40.230
        Local Storage Pool: 1 pool
        POOL    IO_PRIORITY     RAID_LEVEL      USABLE  USED    STATUS  ZONE            REGION
        0       LOW             raid0           150 GiB 9.0 GiB Online  us-east-1b      us-east-1
        Local Storage Devices: 1 device
        Device  Path            Media Type              Size            Last-Scan
        0:1     /dev/xvdf       STORAGE_MEDIUM_SSD      150 GiB         09 Apr 19 22:57 UTC
        total                   -                       150 GiB
        Cache Devices:
        No cache devices
Cluster Summary
        Cluster ID: px-dr-cluster
        Cluster UUID: 27558ed9-7ddd-4424-92d4-5dfe2af572e0
        Scheduler: kubernetes
        Nodes: 6 node(s) with storage (6 online)
        IP              ID                                      SchedulerNodeName               StorageNode     Used    Capacity        Status  StorageStatus   Version         Kernel          OS
        172.20.33.100   c665fe35-57d9-4302-b6f7-a978f17cd020    ip-172-20-33-100.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.40.50.47    bbb2f11d-c6ad-46e7-a52f-530f313869f3    ip-172-40-50-47.ec2.internal    Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.40.34.140   a888a08e-0596-43a5-8d02-6faf19e8724c    ip-172-40-34-140.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.20.36.212   7a83c652-ffaf-452f-978c-82b0da1d2580    ip-172-20-36-212.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.20.59.248   11e0656a-45a5-4a5b-b4e6-51e130959644    ip-172-20-59-248.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.40.40.230   04de0858-4081-47c3-a2ab-f0835b788738    ip-172-40-40-230.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up (This node)  2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
Global Storage Pool
        Total Used      :  0 B
        Total Capacity  :  900 GiB
```

### Setup a witness node

To set up a witness node: 

1. Install the [Docker engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

2. Install the witness node, after the Docker engine is up and running:

    ```txt
    chmod +x ./witness-install.sh ./witness-install.sh --cluster-id=px-cluster – etcd="etcd:http://70.0.68.196:2379,etcd:http://70.0.93.183:2379,etcd:http://70.0.68.196:2379"
    ```

3. Set up a single storage-less Portworx node on the designated VM using the [witness script](#appendix).

### Install storkctl

`storkctl` is a command-line tool for interacting with a set of scheduler extensions.

{{< content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-disaster-recovery-stork-helper.md" >}}

### Cluster Domains Status

When Stork is deployed along with Portworx in this mode it automatically creates a ClusterDomainStatus object. This can
be used to find out the current state of all the cluster domains. Each Kubernetes cluster where Stork is deployed will
have this object automatically created. You can use the following commands to get the current status:

```text
storkctl get clusterdomainsstatus
```

```output
NAME            ACTIVE                    INACTIVE   CREATED
px-dr-cluster   [us-east-1a us-east-1b]   []         09 Apr 19 17:12 PDT
```

You can also use `kubectl` to inspect the ClusterDomainsStatus object

```text
kubectl describe clusterdomainsstatus -n kube-system
```

```output
Name:         px-dr-cluster
Namespace:
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  stork.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
Kind:         ClusterDomainsStatus
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2019-04-10T00:12:53Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    62704
  Self Link:           /apis/stork.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1/clusterdomainsstatuses/px-dr-cluster
  UID:                 62865df5-5b25-11e9-a3ff-12e335b4e36e
Status:
  Active:
    us-east-1b
    us-east-1a
  Inactive:  <nil>

```

Once your Portworx stretch cluster is installed, you can proceed to next step.

## Appendix

Following is the witness script mentioned in the [Setup a witness node](#setup-a-witness-node) section:

```txt
#!/bin/bash

  PX_DOCKER_IMAGE=portworx/px-enterprise:2.7.0

  function usage()
  {
  echo "Install Portworx as a witness node"
  echo ""
  echo "./install-witness.sh"
  echo "--help"
  echo "--cluster-id=$CLUSTER_ID"
  echo "--etcd=$ETCD"
  echo "--docker-image=$PX_DOCKER_IMAGE"
  echo ""
  }

  while [ "$1" != "" ]; do
  PARAM=`echo $1 | awk -F= '{print $1}'`
  VALUE=`echo $1 | awk -F= '{print $2}'`
  case $PARAM in
  --help)
  usage
  exit
  ;;
  --cluster-id)
  CLUSTER_ID=$VALUE
  ;;
  --docker-image)
  PX_DOCKER_IMAGE=$VALUE
  ;;
  --etcd)
  ETCD=$VALUE
  ;;
  *)
  echo "ERROR: unknown parameter \"$PARAM\""
  usage
  exit 1
  ;;
  Once PX is up and running place the witness node in maintenance.
  esac
  shift
  done

  sudo docker run --entrypoint /runc-entry-point.sh \
  --rm -i --privileged=true \
  -v /opt/pwx:/opt/pwx -v /etc/pwx:/etc/pwx \
  $PX_DOCKER_IMAGE

  /opt/pwx/bin/px-runc install -k $ETCD -c $CLUSTER_ID --cluster_domain witness -a

  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl enable portworx
  sudo systemctl start portworx

  watch -n 1 --color /opt/pwx/bin/pxctl --color status 
```

In the witness script:

* the `--cluster_domain` argument is set to witness to indicate that this is a witness node and it contributes to quorum.
* the `clusterID` and the `etcd` details need to be the same as they have been provided to the two other Portworx installations done in the Kubernetes clusters.

Commit message:

PD-899 Add cluster domain example to CRD and clean up examples (#1418)

content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/disaster-recovery/px-metro/1-install-px.md, after:

---
title: 1. Prepare your Portworx Cluster
weight: 1
keywords: Asynchronous DR, disaster recovery, kubernetes, k8s, cloud, backup, restore, snapshot, migration
description: Find out how to install a single stretch Portworx cluster across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
---

The goal of this document is to setup a single Portworx cluster that spans across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

## Prerequisites

* **Kubernetes Clusters**: At least two Kubernetes clusters which are part of the same metropolitan area network with a
  maximum network latency of 10ms between them.
* **Version**: A single Portworx cluster of v2.1 or later installed on across Kubernetes clusters and Stork v2.2.4 or
  later on both clusters.
* **Network Connectivity**: Ports 9001 to 9020 open between the two Kubernetes clusters.
* **External Kvdb**: A kvdb like etcd or consul setup outside of the Kubernetes clusters.
* **License**: A DR enabled {{< pxEnterprise >}} license on both the source and destination clusters to use this feature.
* **Witness node requirements**: 4 cores minimum, 8 cores recommended, 4GB minimum, 8GB recommended

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**: Additional steps are required when installing on a Tanzu cluster. Check below for details 
{{</info>}}

## Installing Portworx

In this mode of operation, a single Portworx cluster will stretch across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

### New Installation

To install Portworx on each of the Kubernetes clusters, you will need to generate a separate Portworx Kubernetes
manifest file for each of them using the Portworx spec generator in [PX-Central](https://central.portworx.com).

While generating the spec file for each Kubernetes cluster, make sure you provide the same values for the following
arguments:

#### Operator Install
* **Cluster ID** (StorageCluster: metadata.name)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (StorageCluster: spec.kvdb.endpoints)

#### DaemonSet Install
* **Cluster ID** (Portworx install argument: `-c`)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (Portworx install argument: `-k`)

Specifying the same **ClusterID** and **Kvdb Endpoints** in each Kubernetes manifest file ensures that a single Portworx
cluster will stretch across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

### Existing Installation

If you already have an existing Kubernetes cluster, you can add another Kubernetes cluster and let its nodes join the
same Portworx cluster.

To achieve this, make sure you provide the following arguments same as your existing cluster:

#### Operator Install
* **Cluster ID** (StorageCluster: metadata.name)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (StorageCluster: spec.kvdb.endpoints)

#### DaemonSet Install
* **Cluster ID** (Portworx install argument: `-c`)
* **Kvdb Endpoints** (Portworx install argument: `-k`)

Specifying the same **ClusterID** and **Kvdb Endpoints** as your existing cluster ensures that a single Portworx cluster
will stretch across multiple Kubernetes clusters.

If your Kubernetes clusters have exactly the same configuration, you can use the URL specified by
the `install-source` annotation on the existing Portworx installation to fetch the spec for your new cluster:

#### Operator Install
Use the `portworx.io/install-source` annotation:
```text
apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1
kind: StorageCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    portworx.io/install-source: "https://install.portworx.com/{{% currentVersion %}}?mc=false&kbver=1.11.9&k=etcd%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2F100.26.199.167%3A2379&s=%22type%3Dgp2%2Csize%3D150%22&c=px-cluster-2f6d696f-a728-46ec-bfbc-dcece1765579&stork=true&lh=true&st=k8s"
```

#### DaemonSet Install
Use the `portworx.com/install-source` annotation:
```text
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: DaemonSet
metadata:
  annotations:
    portworx.com/install-source: "https://install.portworx.com/{{% currentVersion %}}?mc=false&kbver=1.11.9&k=etcd%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2F100.26.199.167%3A2379&s=%22type%3Dgp2%2Csize%3D150%22&c=px-cluster-2f6d696f-a728-46ec-bfbc-dcece1765579&stork=true&lh=true&st=k8s"
```

Otherwise you can always generate a new spec using the Portworx spec generator
in [PX-Central](https://central.portworx.com).

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**: If your existing Kubernetes cluster uses internal kvdb, then you cannot stretch your Portworx clusters across
multiple Kubernetes cluster. This mode of deployments requires an external kvdb running outside your Kubernetes cluster
{{</info>}}

### Specifying cluster domains

A cluster domain identifies a subset of nodes from the stretch Portworx cluster that are a part of the same failure
domain. In this case, your Kubernetes clusters are separated across a metropolitan area network and we wish to achieve
DR across them. So each Kubernetes cluster and its nodes are one cluster domain. This cluster domain information needs
to be explicitly specified to Portworx through the `-cluster_domain` install argument.

Once you have generated the Kubernetes manifest file, add the `cluster_domain` argument. You can also edit a running Portworx install and add this new field. The value for `cluster_domain` must be different for each Kubernetes cluster, for example:

* You can name your cluster domains with arbitrary names like **datacenter1** and **datacenter2** identifying in which
  Datacenter your Kubernetes clusters are running.
* You can name them based on your cloud provider's zone names such as **us-east-1a**, **us-east-1b**.

#### Using the Operator

Use the `portworx.io/misc-args` annotation to add a `-cluster_domain` argument with the cluster domain name of your cluster environment. The following example uses a cluster domain of `us-east-1a`:

```text
apiVersion: core.libopenstorage.org/v1
kind: StorageCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    portworx.io/misc-args: "-cluster_domain us-east-1a"
```

#### Using the DaemonSet

Add the `-cluster_domain` argument in the `args` section of the DaemonSet. The following example uses a cluster domain of `us-east-1a`:

```text
      containers:
        - name: portworx
          image: portworx/oci-monitor:2.1
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          args:
            ["-k", "etcd:http://100.26.199.167:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.168:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.169:2379", "-c", "px-dr-cluster", "-cluster_domain", "us-east-1a", "-a", "-secret_type", "k8s",
             "-x", "kubernetes"]

```

#### Installing on a Tanzu cluster

{{<info>}}
**NOTE**: This section is intended for users who are using Tanzu, skip this section if you're not using Tanzu.
{{</info>}}

The existing Sync DR implementation assumes the availability of cloud drives for each of the two clusters. In Tanzu cloud drive is a PVC, which is a cluster-scoped resource and in order to help clusters distinguish between their drives,
they should be labeled accordingly.

* Label your worker nodes **on both** clusters with the `px-dr` label. Set your cluster domain as a
  value.

    ```
    kubectl label nodes <list_of_nodes or --all> px-dr=<cluster_domain_name>
    ```

* Add the `--node_pool_label` parameter to the spec with a key `px-dr`

    ```text
          containers:
            - name: portworx
              image: portworx/oci-monitor:2.8
              args:
                ["-k", "etcd:http://100.26.199.167:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.168:2379,etcd:http://100.26.199.169:2379", "-c", "px-dr-cluster", "-cluster_domain", "us-east-1a", "-a", "-secret_type", "k8s",
                 "-x", "kubernetes", --node_pool_label=px-dr]
    ```

{{<info>}}
**NOTE:** 

* Other arguments are for illustration purposes only, Use args from your existing specs. Only add `--node_pool_label=px-dr`.
* Only deploy Portworx in this mode when your Kubernetes clusters are separated by a metropolitan area network with a maximum latency of 10ms. Pure Storage does not recommended you run in this mode if your Kubernetes clusters are distributed across regions, such as AWS regions `us-east` and `us-west`. 
{{</info>}}

A cluster domain and, in turn, the set of nodes which are a part of that domain are associated with either of the
following states:

* **Active State**: Nodes from an active cluster domain participate in the cluster activities. Applications **can** be
  scheduled on the nodes which are a part of an active cluster domain.
* **Inactive State**: Nodes from an inactive cluster domain do not participate in the cluster activities.
  Applications **cannot** be scheduled on such nodes.

Once the Kubernetes manifest is applied on both the clusters, Portworx will form the stretch cluster. You can run the
following commands to ensure Portworx is successfully installed in a stretch fashion.

**Kubernetes Cluster 1 running in `us-east-1a`**

```text
kubectl get nodes -o wide
```

```output
ip-172-20-33-100.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   18.205.7.13      Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-20-36-212.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   18.213.118.236   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-20-48-24.ec2.internal    Ready     master    3h        v1.11.9   18.215.34.139    Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-20-59-248.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   34.200.228.223   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
```

**Kubernetes Cluster 2 running in `us-east-1b`**

```text
kubectl get nodes -o wide
```

```output
ip-172-40-34-140.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   34.204.2.95     Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-40-35-23.ec2.internal    Ready     master    3h        v1.11.9   34.238.44.60    Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-40-40-230.ec2.internal   Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   52.90.187.179   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
ip-172-40-50-47.ec2.internal    Ready     node      3h        v1.11.9   3.84.27.79      Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)   4.9.0-7-amd64    docker://17.3.2
```

A single Portworx cluster running across both the Kubernetes clusters

```text
kubectl exec portworx-d6rk7 -n kube-system -- /opt/pwx/bin/pxctl status
```

```output
Status: PX is operational
License: Trial (expires in 31 days)
Node ID: 04de0858-4081-47c3-a2ab-f0835b788738
        IP: 172.40.40.230
        Local Storage Pool: 1 pool
        POOL    IO_PRIORITY     RAID_LEVEL      USABLE  USED    STATUS  ZONE            REGION
        0       LOW             raid0           150 GiB 9.0 GiB Online  us-east-1b      us-east-1
        Local Storage Devices: 1 device
        Device  Path            Media Type              Size            Last-Scan
        0:1     /dev/xvdf       STORAGE_MEDIUM_SSD      150 GiB         09 Apr 19 22:57 UTC
        total                   -                       150 GiB
        Cache Devices:
        No cache devices
Cluster Summary
        Cluster ID: px-dr-cluster
        Cluster UUID: 27558ed9-7ddd-4424-92d4-5dfe2af572e0
        Scheduler: kubernetes
        Nodes: 6 node(s) with storage (6 online)
        IP              ID                                      SchedulerNodeName               StorageNode     Used    Capacity        Status  StorageStatus   Version         Kernel          OS
        172.20.33.100   c665fe35-57d9-4302-b6f7-a978f17cd020    ip-172-20-33-100.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.40.50.47    bbb2f11d-c6ad-46e7-a52f-530f313869f3    ip-172-40-50-47.ec2.internal    Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.40.34.140   a888a08e-0596-43a5-8d02-6faf19e8724c    ip-172-40-34-140.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.20.36.212   7a83c652-ffaf-452f-978c-82b0da1d2580    ip-172-20-36-212.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.20.59.248   11e0656a-45a5-4a5b-b4e6-51e130959644    ip-172-20-59-248.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up              2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
        172.40.40.230   04de0858-4081-47c3-a2ab-f0835b788738    ip-172-40-40-230.ec2.internal   Yes             0 B     150 GiB         Online  Up (This node)  2.1.0.0-cb23fd1 4.9.0-7-amd64   Debian GNU/Linux 9 (stretch)
Global Storage Pool
        Total Used      :  0 B
        Total Capacity  :  900 GiB
```

### Setup a witness node

To set up a witness node: 

1. Install the [Docker engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

2. Install the witness node, after the Docker engine is up and running:

    ```txt
    chmod +x ./witness-install.sh ./witness-install.sh --cluster-id=px-cluster – etcd="etcd:http://70.0.68.196:2379,etcd:http://70.0.93.183:2379,etcd:http://70.0.68.196:2379"
    ```

3. Set up a single storage-less Portworx node on the designated VM using the [witness script](#appendix).

### Install storkctl

`storkctl` is a command-line tool for interacting with a set of scheduler extensions.

{{< content "shared/portworx-install-with-kubernetes-disaster-recovery-stork-helper.md" >}}

### Cluster Domains Status

When Stork is deployed along with Portworx in this mode it automatically creates a ClusterDomainStatus object. This can
be used to find out the current state of all the cluster domains. Each Kubernetes cluster where Stork is deployed will
have this object automatically created. You can use the following commands to get the current status:

```text
storkctl get clusterdomainsstatus
```

```output
NAME            ACTIVE                    INACTIVE   CREATED
px-dr-cluster   [us-east-1a us-east-1b]   []         09 Apr 19 17:12 PDT
```

You can also use `kubectl` to inspect the ClusterDomainsStatus object

```text
kubectl describe clusterdomainsstatus -n kube-system
```

```output
Name:         px-dr-cluster
Namespace:
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  stork.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1
Kind:         ClusterDomainsStatus
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  2019-04-10T00:12:53Z
  Generation:          1
  Resource Version:    62704
  Self Link:           /apis/stork.libopenstorage.org/v1alpha1/clusterdomainsstatuses/px-dr-cluster
  UID:                 62865df5-5b25-11e9-a3ff-12e335b4e36e
Status:
  Active:
    us-east-1b
    us-east-1a
  Inactive:  <nil>

```

Once your Portworx stretch cluster is installed, you can proceed to next step.

## Appendix

Following is the witness script mentioned in the [Setup a witness node](#setup-a-witness-node) section:

```txt
#!/bin/bash

  PX_DOCKER_IMAGE=portworx/px-enterprise:2.7.0

  function usage()
  {
  echo "Install Portworx as a witness node"
  echo ""
  echo "./install-witness.sh"
  echo "--help"
  echo "--cluster-id=$CLUSTER_ID"
  echo "--etcd=$ETCD"
  echo "--docker-image=$PX_DOCKER_IMAGE"
  echo ""
  }

  while [ "$1" != "" ]; do
  PARAM=`echo $1 | awk -F= '{print $1}'`
  VALUE=`echo $1 | awk -F= '{print $2}'`
  case $PARAM in
  --help)
  usage
  exit
  ;;
  --cluster-id)
  CLUSTER_ID=$VALUE
  ;;
  --docker-image)
  PX_DOCKER_IMAGE=$VALUE
  ;;
  --etcd)
  ETCD=$VALUE
  ;;
  *)
  echo "ERROR: unknown parameter \"$PARAM\""
  usage
  exit 1
  ;;
  Once PX is up and running place the witness node in maintenance.
  esac
  shift
  done

  sudo docker run --entrypoint /runc-entry-point.sh \
  --rm -i --privileged=true \
  -v /opt/pwx:/opt/pwx -v /etc/pwx:/etc/pwx \
  $PX_DOCKER_IMAGE

  /opt/pwx/bin/px-runc install -k $ETCD -c $CLUSTER_ID --cluster_domain witness -a

  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl enable portworx
  sudo systemctl start portworx

  watch -n 1 --color /opt/pwx/bin/pxctl --color status 
```

In the witness script:

* the `--cluster_domain` argument is set to witness to indicate that this is a witness node and it contributes to quorum.
* the `clusterID` and the `etcd` details need to be the same as they have been provided to the two other Portworx installations done in the Kubernetes clusters.
