content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/autopilot/how-to-use/install-autopilot.md, before:

---
title: "Autopilot Install and Setup"
linkTitle: "Autopilot Install and Setup"
keywords: install, autopilot
description: Instructions on installation, configuration and upgrade of Autopilot
weight: 100
---

## Installing Autopilot

### Prerequisites

#### Prometheus

Autopilot requires a running Prometheus instance in your cluster. If you don't have Prometheus configured in your cluster, refer to the [Prometheus and Grafana](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/operate-and-maintain-on-kubernetes/monitoring/monitoring-px-prometheusandgrafana.1/) to set it up.

Once you have it installed, find the Prometheus service endpoint in your cluster. Depending on how you installed Prometheus, the precise steps to find this may vary. In most clusters, you can find a service named Prometheus:

```text
kubectl get service -n kube-system prometheus
```
```output
NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)          AGE
prometheus   LoadBalancer   10.0.201.44   52.175.223.52   9090:30613/TCP   11d
```

In the example above, `http://prometheus:9090` becomes the Prometheus endpoint. Portworx uses this endpoint in the [Autopilot Configuration](/reference/crd/storage-cluster/#autopilot-configuration) section.


{{<info>}}*Why `http://prometheus:9090`* ?

`prometheus` is the name of the Kubernetes service for Prometheus in the kube-system namespace. Since Autopilot also runs as a pod in the kube-system namespace, it can access Prometheus using it's Kubernetes service name and port.

{{</info>}}

### Configuring the ConfigMap

Replace `http://prometheus:9090` in the following ConfigMap with your Prometheus service endpoint, if it's different. Once replaced, apply this ConfigMap in your cluster:

```text

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: autopilot-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  config.yaml: |-
    providers:
       - name: default
         type: prometheus
         params: url=http://prometheus:9090
    min_poll_interval: 2
```

This ConfigMap serves as a configuration for Autopilot.

### Installing Autopilot

To install Autopilot, fetch the Autopilot manifest from the Portworx spec generator by clicking [here](https://install.portworx.com/?comp=autopilot)
and apply it in your cluster.

## Upgrading Autopilot

To upgrade Autopilot, change the image tag in the deployment with the `kubectl set image` command. The following example upgrades Autopilot to the 1.3.0 version:

```text
kubectl set image deployment.v1.apps/autopilot -n kube-system autopilot=portworx/autopilot:1.3.0
```
```output
deployment.apps/autopilot image updated
```

{{<info>}}**NOTE:** The command above assumes Autopilot is installed in the `kube-system` namespace. Change the namespace according to where it's installed in your cluster.{{</info>}}

Commit message:

PD-1047 Autopilot PX-Security env var & Autopilot 1.3.2 release notes (#1317)

content/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/autopilot/how-to-use/install-autopilot.md, after:

---
title: "Autopilot Install and Setup"
linkTitle: "Autopilot Install and Setup"
keywords: install, autopilot
description: Instructions on installation, configuration and upgrade of Autopilot
weight: 100
---

## Installing Autopilot

### Prerequisites

#### Prometheus

Autopilot requires a running Prometheus instance in your cluster. If you don't have Prometheus configured in your cluster, refer to the [Prometheus and Grafana](/portworx-install-with-kubernetes/operate-and-maintain-on-kubernetes/monitoring/monitoring-px-prometheusandgrafana.1/) to set it up.

Once you have it installed, find the Prometheus service endpoint in your cluster. Depending on how you installed Prometheus, the precise steps to find this may vary. In most clusters, you can find a service named Prometheus:

```text
kubectl get service -n kube-system prometheus
```
```output
NAME         TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)          AGE
prometheus   LoadBalancer   10.0.201.44   52.175.223.52   9090:30613/TCP   11d
```

In the example above, `http://prometheus:9090` becomes the Prometheus endpoint. Portworx uses this endpoint in the [Autopilot Configuration](/reference/crd/storage-cluster/#autopilot-configuration) section.


{{<info>}}*Why `http://prometheus:9090`* ?

`prometheus` is the name of the Kubernetes service for Prometheus in the kube-system namespace. Since Autopilot also runs as a pod in the kube-system namespace, it can access Prometheus using it's Kubernetes service name and port.

{{</info>}}

### Configuring the ConfigMap

Replace `http://prometheus:9090` in the following ConfigMap with your Prometheus service endpoint, if it's different. Once replaced, apply this ConfigMap in your cluster:

```text

apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: autopilot-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  config.yaml: |-
    providers:
       - name: default
         type: prometheus
         params: url=http://prometheus:9090
    min_poll_interval: 2
```

This ConfigMap serves as a configuration for Autopilot.

### Installing Autopilot

To install Autopilot, fetch the Autopilot manifest from the Portworx spec generator by clicking [here](https://install.portworx.com/?comp=autopilot)
and apply it in your cluster.


#### Autopilot with PX-Security 

If you're installing Autopilot with PX-Security using the Operator, you must modify the StorageCluster yaml. Add the following PX_SHARED_SECRET env var to the `autopilot` section: 

```text
  autopilot:
...
    env:
    - name: PX_SHARED_SECRET
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          key: apps-secret
          name: px-system-secrets
```

## Upgrading Autopilot

To upgrade Autopilot, change the image tag in the deployment with the `kubectl set image` command. The following example upgrades Autopilot to the 1.3.0 version:

```text
kubectl set image deployment.v1.apps/autopilot -n kube-system autopilot=portworx/autopilot:1.3.0
```
```output
deployment.apps/autopilot image updated
```

{{<info>}}**NOTE:** The command above assumes Autopilot is installed in the `kube-system` namespace. Change the namespace according to where it's installed in your cluster.{{</info>}}
